
# [4. Syntax and Semantics](http://www.gigamonkeys.com/book/syntax-and-semantics.html)


<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->

* [What's with All the Parentheses?](#whats-with-all-the-parentheses)
* [Breaking Open the Black Box](#breaking-open-the-black-box)
* [S-expressions](#s-expressions)
* [S-expressions As Lisp Forms](#s-expressions-as-lisp-forms)
* [Function Calls](#function-calls)
* [Special Operators](#special-operators)
* [Macros](#macros)
* [Truth, Falsehood, and Equality](#truth-falsehood-and-equality)
* [Formatting Lisp Code](#formatting-lisp-code)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

## What's with All the Parentheses?
## Breaking Open the Black Box
Common Lisp defines two black boxes, one that translates text into Lisp objects and another that implements the semantics of the language in terms of those objects. The first box is called the *reader*, and the second is called the *evaluator*.
## S-expressions
The basic elements of s-expressions are:
- **lists** Lists are delimited by parentheses and can contain any number of whitespace-separated elements. 
- **atoms** Atoms are everything else.

## S-expressions As Lisp Forms
## Function Calls
In other words, the basic syntax of a function call form is as follows, where each of the arguments is itself a Lisp form:
```
(function-name argument*)
```


```lisp
CL-USER> (+ 1 2)
3
CL-USER> (* (+ 1 2) (- 3 4))
-3
```
## Special Operators

The rule for **IF** is pretty easy: evaluate the first expression. If it evaluates to non-**NIL**, then evaluate the next expression and return its value. Otherwise, return the value of evaluating the third expression or **NIL** if the third expression is omitted.

```
(if test-form then-form [ else-form ])
```
```lisp
CL-USER> (if t (format t "yes") (format t "no"))
yes
NIL
CL-USER> (if nil (format t "yes") (format t "no"))
no
NIL
CL-USER> (if nil (format t "yes"))
NIL
```
An even simpler special operator is **QUOTE**, which takes a single expression as its "argument" and simply returns it, unevaluated.
```lisp
CL-USER> (+ 1 2)
3
CL-USER> (quote (+ 1 2))
(+ 1 2)
CL-USER> '(+ 1 2)
(+ 1 2)
```
## Macros
## Truth, Falsehood, and Equality
- t
- nil
- eq, eql, equal, equalp

## Formatting Lisp Code
